Assessment: Method Overriding
1. What is method overriding in Java?
A. Creating two methods with the same name but different parameters in the same class
B. When a subclass provides its own specific implementation of a method already defined in its superclass
C. Declaring a method without a body
D. Deleting a method from a class
2. Which relationship between classes is required for method overriding to occur?
A. No relationship is needed
B. An inheritance relationship (subclass and superclass)
C. Both classes must be in the same file
D. Both methods must be static
3. For a method in a subclass to properly override a method in the superclass, what must be the same?
A. Only the method name
B. The method name, return type, and parameter list (method signature)
C. Only the access modifier
D. Only the number of lines of code
4. Which annotation is commonly used in Java to indicate that a method is intended to override a
superclass method?
A. @Overload
B. @Override
C. @Inherit
D. @Super
5. What is the benefit of using the @Override annotation, even though it's optional?
A. It makes the program run faster
B. It lets the compiler catch errors if the method doesn't actually match a superclass method
C. It automatically creates a constructor
D. It hides the method from other classes
6. Can a private method in a superclass be overridden by a subclass?
A. Yes, private methods can always be overridden
B. No, private methods are not inherited/visible to subclasses, so they cannot be overridden
C. Only if the subclass is in the same file
D. Only if the method is also static
7. Can a static method be overridden in Java?
A. Yes, static methods can be overridden just like instance methods
B. No, static methods are not overridden; a subclass with the same static method signature instead 'hides'
the superclass version
C. Static methods cannot exist in subclasses at all
D. Static methods automatically become abstract
8. What keyword can a subclass use inside an overriding method to still call the superclass's original
version of that method?
A. this
B. super
C. base
D. parent
9. Which access modifier rule must be followed when overriding a method?
A. The overriding method's access level cannot be more restrictive than the superclass method's
B. The overriding method must always be private
C. The overriding method must always be public regardless of the superclass
D. There are no access modifier rules for overriding
10. Why is method overriding closely tied to polymorphism?
A. Because it allows a single method call to behave differently depending on the actual object type at
runtime
B. Because it prevents classes from having multiple methods
C. Because it removes the need for inheritance
D. Because it only works with abstract classes
11. Which of these best demonstrates correct method overriding?
A. Superclass: void sound(); Subclass: void sound(int x) { }
B. Superclass: void sound() { }; Subclass: void sound() { } (with a new implementation)
C. Superclass: int sound(); Subclass: String sound() { }
D. Superclass: void sound(); Subclass: static void sound() { }
12. Can a subclass method throw broader checked exceptions than the overridden superclass method?
A. Yes, there are no restrictions
B. No,anoverridingmethodcannotthrowneworbroadercheckedexceptionsthanthemethoditoverrides
C. Only if the method is private
D. Only if using the super keyword
13. What happens if a subclass defines a method with the same name but a DIFFERENT parameter list
than a superclass method?
A. This is still considered overriding
B. This is considered overloading (a new method), not overriding
C. It causes a compile-time error
D. The superclass method is deleted automatically
14. In Java, can a final method in a superclass be overridden by a subclass?
A. Yes, final methods can always be overridden
B. No, methods marked final cannot be overridden
C. Only if the subclass is also final
D. Only in abstract classes
15. When an object is accessed through a superclass reference variable but points to a subclass object
(e.g., Animal a = new Dog();), which version of an overridden method runs when called?
A. The superclass's version always runs
B. The subclass's overridden version runs, due to dynamic method dispatch (runtime polymorphism)
C. Both versions run one after another
D. It causes a runtime error
16. What is the term for the mechanism where Java decides at runtime which overridden method to
execute?
A. Static binding
B. Dynamic method dispatch (runtime polymorphism)
C. Compile-time binding
D. Method hiding
17. Why might a developer override the toString() method inherited from the Object class?
A. To change how objects of that class are represented as a String, such as when printing them
B. To delete the object
C. To make the class abstract
D. To prevent the object from being created
18. Can constructors be overridden in Java?
A. Yes, constructors can be overridden just like regular methods
B. No, constructors are not inherited and therefore cannot be overridden (though they can be overloaded)
C. Only default constructors can be overridden
D. Constructors are always abstract
19. What is a common real-world reason to use method overriding in a program?
A. To completely remove a method's functionality with no replacement
B. To customize or specialize the behavior of an inherited method to fit the specific needs of a subclass
C. To avoid using constructors
D. To make a class unable to be instantiated
20. Which best summarizes the overall purpose of method overriding in OOP?
A. To create entirely unrelated methods across classes
B. Tolet a subclass redefine inherited behavior so that the same method call produces class-specific results,
enabling polymorphism
C. To prevent subclasses from using superclass methods
D. To combine multiple unrelated classes into one

Answer Key

1 B
2 B
3 B
4 B
5 B
6 B
7 B
8 B
9 A
10 A
11 B
12 B
13 B
14 B
15 B
16 B
17 A
18 B
19 B
20 B