Assessment: Interface
1. What is an interface in Java?
A. Aclass that can be instantiated directly
B. Areference type, similar to a fully abstract class, that specifies a set of methods a class must implement
C. Atype of loop
D. Aprivate helper method
2. Which keyword is used to declare an interface?
A. class
B. interface
C. abstract
D. extends
3. Which keyword does a class use to apply/use an interface?
A. extends
B. implements
C. inherits
D. uses
4. Bydefault, whattypeofmethodsaredeclaredinsideaninterface(beforeJava8default/staticmethods)?
A. Private methods
B. Public and abstract methods
C. Final methods
D. Static methods only
5. By default, what type are variables/fields declared inside an interface?
A. Private and mutable
B. Public, static, and final (constants)
C. Protected only
D. They cannot be declared at all
6. Can an interface be instantiated directly (e.g., new SomeInterface())?
A. Yes, always
B. No, interfaces cannot be instantiated directly
C. Only if it has no methods
D. Only inside the main method
7. What must a class do when it implements an interface?
A. Nothing, all methods are optional
B. It must override/implement all of the interface's abstract methods, or the class must be declared abstract
C. It must delete the interface's methods
D. It must also extend a superclass
8. Can a Java class implement more than one interface?
A. No, only one interface is allowed per class
B. Yes, a class can implement multiple interfaces
C. Only abstract classes can implement multiple interfaces
D. Only if the interfaces have no methods
9. How is an interface different from an abstract class in terms of multiple inheritance?
A. They behave exactly the same way
B. Aclass can implement multiple interfaces, but can only extend one (abstract or regular) class
C. Abstract classes allow multiple inheritance, interfaces don't
D. Neither supports any form of multiple inheritance
10. What modifier, introduced in Java 8, allows an interface method to have a body (default
implementation)?
A. abstract
B. default
C. static (as the only way)
D. final
11. Can an interface have static methods with a full implementation?
A. No, static methods are not allowed in interfaces
B. Yes, since Java 8, interfaces can have static methods with a body
C. Only abstract classes can have static methods
D. Static methods must always be private in interfaces
12. Why are variables in an interface implicitly final?
A. Because interfaces represent a fixed contract, and constants should not be changed by implementing
classes
B. Because Java requires all variables to be final
C. Because final variables run faster
D. There is no specific reason
13. What happens if a class implements an interface but forgets to override one of its abstract methods?
A. Nothing happens; it compiles fine
B. Acompile-time error occurs, unless the class is also declared abstract
C. The interface method is automatically removed
D. The program runs but skips that method silently
14. Can one interface extend another interface?
A. No, interfaces cannot extend other interfaces
B. Yes, an interface can extend one or more other interfaces using the extends keyword
C. Only abstract classes can extend interfaces
D. Interfaces can only extend classes
15. What is a key reason to use an interface instead of an abstract class when designing unrelated classes
that need to share certain behavior?
A. Interfaces let unrelated classes (e.g., Bird and Airplane) share a common capability (like fly()) without
being forced into the same class hierarchy
B. Interfaces are faster to compile than classes
C. Interfaces can store more fields than abstract classes
D. Interfaces automatically generate constructors
16. Which of the following best demonstrates correct interface implementation syntax?
A. class Dog extends Animal { }
B. class Dog implements Animal { }
C. interface Dog extends Animal { }
D. class Dog(Animal) { }
17. What is a common real-world example used to explain multiple interface implementation, such as an
AirAnimal, LandAnimal, or WaterAnimal?
A. Different animals can implement different interfaces depending on their abilities (e.g., a Bird implements
both AirAnimal and LandAnimal, since it can fly and walk)
B. All animals must implement exactly the same single interface
C. Interfaces cannot represent real-world abilities
D. Only one interface may ever be used per animal class
18. If a class instantiates an object but stores it using the interface type (e.g., Animal a = new Dog();), what
can be accessed through variable 'a'?
A. All of Dog's methods, including ones not declared in Animal
B. Only the methods declared in the Animal interface, unless the object is cast back to Dog
C. Nothing can be accessed
D. Only static methods
19. Which of these is a valid reason an interface's abstract methods don't need the word 'abstract'
explicitly written?
A. Because all methods in an interface are already abstract by default (unless marked default or static)
B. Because interfaces don't allow abstract methods
C. Because 'abstract' is a reserved keyword only for classes
D. Because interface methods are always private
20. What is the overall purpose of an interface in Java's object-oriented design?
A. To define a contract of behaviors that implementing classes must fulfill, enabling multiple, often
unrelated classes to share required capabilities and supporting flexible, multiple-inheritance-like design
B. To store data permanently on disk
C. To replace the need for the main method
D. To prevent classes from having any methods

Answer Key

1 B
2 B
3 B
4 B
5 B
6 B
7 B
8 B
9 B
10 B
11 B
12 A
13 B
14 B
15 A
16 B
17 A
18 B
19 A
20 A